Initial Multichain MIP drafts (#31)
MetaMask/metamask-improvement-proposals: MIPs/mip-x-authorize.md

author(s): Alex Donesky (@adonesky1), Jiexi Luan (@jiexi), Shane Jonas (@shanejonas), Vandan Parikh (@vandan) 
type: Maintainer
created: 2024-01-25
---

## Summary

A proposal to introduce an unrestricted `wallet_authorize` method for applications to connect to MetaMask per ChainAgnostic Standards Alliance’s CAIP-25 standard. The `wallet_authorize` method establishes an interface for authorizing application access to wallet-managed resources including accounts, RPC providers, and specific JSON-RPC methods across multiple EVM-compatible networks. An application can request access to these resources by specifying scopes as defined in CAIP-217.

This method is intended to be part of a new version of the MetaMask Wallet API that is optimized for multinetwork interactions.

This proposal aims to implement CAIP-25's JSON-RPC Wallet Authorization for EVM-compatible networks into MetaMask. For these networks, the `rpcEndpoints` parameter is adapted to be compliant with the object structure defined in EIP-3085. Designing the interface in this way will provide a standardized approach for applications to request access to networks and JSON-RPC methods.

## Motivation

> The purpose of this proposal is to offer a convenient and standard pattern for applications to negotiate multiple network authorizations with MetaMask. 

Reviewer: in the ethereum world, this would be more accurate as `multiple chain`, but I don't know if that is true in other ecosystems

Author: By the time we move the MIP to Review status, we may be ready to incorporate alternative networks (non-EVM) to it so that's why you see "network" used in place of "chain" throughout the MIP. Trying to stay ecosystem agnostic at least in this MIP.

The `wallet_authorize` method is specifically meant to:

> - Allow applications to progressively negotiate a set of authorizations with MetaMask

Reviewer: progressively implies being able to update existing authorizations. I believe that this method replaces all existing authorizations?

Author: This MIP is still awaiting some resolution and guidance from the lifecycle CAIP being proposed right now.

Author: I believe there are two approaches being considered:

1. Use the same `wallet_authorize` method for initial and progressive (incremental) authorizations
2. Use one method for the initial authorization (replaces any existing authorizations) and another method for progressive authorizations

## Definitions

**network**: Decentralized networks where control, validation, and decision-making processes are distributed across multiple nodes rather than centralized in a single entity. The term will refer to a specific decentralized network that has a single unique identifier. Networks may be implemented as a blockchain or another distributed ledger technology. 

**node**: An RPC node that facilitates interactions with a decentralized network.

**Wallet API**: [The JSON-RPC interface](https://docs.metamask.io/wallet/concepts/apis/) that applications can use to programmatically interact with MetaMask wallet clients.

**authorization**: A permission to use a resource. This term may be used interchangeably with the term **permission**.

**scope**: A uniquely identified domain for which authorizations can be applied (see [CAIP-217](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/main/CAIPs/caip-217.md) for further definition).

**wallet scope**: A scope that applies to capabilities that a MetaMask Wallet client can handle in a relatively self-contained way. They are not specific to a network or namespace.

> **eip155:wallet scope**: A CAIP-2 identifier with a reserved `wallet` as the `reference`. For example "eip155:wallet" indicates a scope that is not specific to a particular Ethereum network but is related to the `eip155` `namespace`.

Reviewer: personally prefer `wallet:eip155`, but there are several different views on this already

Author: one minor advantage I see with `eip155:wallet` is that it appears to be compatible with CAIP-2's `reference` [syntax](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/main/CAIPs/caip-2.md#syntax).

- `eip155:[reference]` a [CAIP-2](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/main/CAIPs/caip-2.md) identifier with both an `eip155` namespace and `reference`

> **Note:** In the future, these scopes may be extended to support a broad range of [CAIP-2 Namespaces](https://namespaces.chainagnostic.org/) as well as Snap managed namespaces or identifiers.

### Valid `requiredScopes`
Valid `requiredScopes` are the same as `optionalScopes`. MetaMask expects `scopeObjects` should be distinct and placed in either the `optionalScopes` OR `requiredScopes`, but not both.

> **Warning:** Placing `scopeObjects` into `requiredScopes` indicates that a permission MUST be accepted in order for the application to function with MetaMask. If permissions for `requiredScopes` are declined, then the application will receive no authorizations and will NOT be connected to MetaMask. In most cases, `scopeObjects` should exclusively be placed in `optionalScopes`. Only use `requiredScopes` to indicate that your application cannot provide even a basic experience without them.

### Valid `scopeMetadata`

> When a MetaMask user does not have an existing network configured for a given eip155 chainId, including metadata for `rpcEndpoints` in the `scopeMetadata` will suggest the user add the first endpoint in the list. MetaMask expects the `rpcEndpoints` parameter to conform with the [EIP-3085](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-3085) standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a MetaMask user does not have an existing network configured for a given eip155 chainId, MetaMask will suggest the user adds the first endpoint defined in the `rpcEndpoints` property of the `scopeMetadata` object. MetaMask expects the `rpcEndpoints` parameter to conform with the [EIP-3085](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-3085) standard.
```

nit. maybe? idk
